# Jekyll Base
After creating a Jekyll-based site, I decided to archive the base for a site based in Jekyll, hosted on Heroku, using Unicorn. May be useful :) My current live site is [http://jeffvincent.me](http://jeffvincent.me), and most of what I've got here is hodge-podge from other jekyll repos and things I've learned. I will do my absolute best to give credit where credit is due (pretty much everywhere).


Usage
-----

### Getting Started

Start by installing the bundler gem, and then bundle install

    $ gem install bundler
    $ bundle install

Open the `base.haml` layout and update the metadata tag with your name and content.  Good for SEO I suppose.

### Rakefile

I inserted a rakefile for doing the two things I do most - preview changes, and deploy updates to github and heroku. 

* `rake preview` will compile haml-based layouts, sass->css, and generate the site. 
* `rake deploy` will push to github master and heroku master.
* `rake np title="post-title"` will create a new post with the title "post-title" (I suggest you update, but that's your business :stuck_out_tongue_winking_eye:

Languages/Framework Support
--------------------------

### HAML
The best way to design layouts is to use HAML. Jekyll doesn't have great built in support for HAML at this point, so I added a plugin for conversion (code is not my own, see file for source attribution). [http://haml.info/](http://haml.info/)

### Sass
I use Sass for pre-processing style - it's just so clean and powerful, you should use it too. [http://sass-lang.com/](http://sass-lang.com/)

### Compass
Compass is basically a group of built-in mixins that make developing across browsers really really easy and keep your Sass clean. [http://compass-style.org/](http://compass-style.org/)

### Foundation
Foundation is a responsive framework built by the folks at Zurb. I have taken the liberty of installing this by default. [http://foundation.zurb.com/](http://foundation.zurb.com/)

Structure
--------

    .
    |-- .gitignore
    |-- .htaccess
    |-- .rvrmc
    |-- Gemfile
    |-- Procfile
    |-- README
    |-- Rakefile
    |-- _config.yml  
    |-- _includes
    |-- _layouts  
    |   |-- haml
    |       `-- base.haml
    |       `-- post.haml
    |   |-- base.html
    |   `-- post.html
    |-- _plugins
    |   `-- haml_converter.rb
    |-- _posts  
    |   `-- 2012-07-02-test-post.md
    |-- _sass
    |-- config
    |   `-- unicorn.rb
    `-- config.rb
    `-- config.ru
    |-- images
    |    `-- all_your_base.png  
    `-- index.html  
    |-- stylesheets
    |    `-- ie.css  
    |    `-- print.css  
    |    `-- screen.css 

There is probably more in there that anyone will need, but I wanted to be as helpful as possible. To keep in that vein, I'll try and go over them below.

### .gitignore, .rvmrc, Gemfile, Procfile, Rakefile ###
Pretty standard group of 'settings' files. My .gitignore removes the 'site' directory, which is generated by jekyll from the static files. It also keeps out the .sass-cache/ directory, .DS_Store, and a few randoms. Check it if you have any issues.

.rvmrc is for Ruby Version control/gem control. The Gemfile is for use with bundler (which you'll need if you plan to use Heroku), same with Procfile. The rakefile is for organizing tasks I do regularly.

### README ###
I always forget to update the READMEs for my repos - guess I never learned. I've found it's most useful for when you step away from a project for an extended time period, and then need to remember what each piece does, how to set up your local environment, or how to generate/deploy.

### _config.yml ###
The config.yml file contains your Jekyll configuration options. There are probably more config options that I don't even know about - you can find the configuration options and default configuration [here](https://github.com/mojombo/jekyll/wiki/configuration). You'll see I updated mine to not use the default permalink style (year-month-day-title.html) because it was just too much overhead for my purposes. Using some .htaccess hacks etc. I also removed the '.html' for the actual site, but that is content for another place.

### _includes ###
Directory for your includes, which I use quite frequently to eliminate repetition. These are included using [Liquid](https://github.com/Shopify/liquid/wiki) tags.

### _layouts ###
Here's where your layouts go. I build mine in haml in a specific 'haml' directory, and then use a raketask to 'convert' to html during site generation.

### _plugins ###
Where you can install Jekyll plug-ins, which I've been told there are many. Mine just includes a basic HAML -> HTML converter, which was taken from another post out there on the interwebs (TODO: find and credit!!).

### _posts ###
Where your 'posts' go! I write mine in markdown format.

### _sass ###
Where my main sass file (screen.sass) lives. This is converted to css and outputted to the 'stylesheets' directory, which is copied into the 'site' directory during generation.

### config, config.rb, config.ru ###
These files are the settings for Unicorn, Compass, and Rack. These settings are basically the defaults, but feel free to play around if you know more than I do about this.
 
### images ###
This directory I add images for hosting - since it doesn't have the underscore before the name, it is copied over as-is to the 'site' directory during generation. Then, you can source the image using relative URLs: *'/images/name-of-image.png'*.

### index.html ###
Site index file. Right now it just loops through and publishes a list of the title and date of posts.

Troubleshooting
--------------

I certainly had my share of problems/issues.  Jekyll has a pretty vibrant community of developers. I found that 'google this' answered most of my questions, and I included most of the best links in a document 'building_a_jekyll_site.md' that you can find in the base.

**good luck!**
**---jv**
